Now, we have the opportunity to enjoy this edition
that we're accustomed to of the inside story.
And it's hosted by another instructor,
Brother Trent Liphole.
Enjoy it.
The past year has been a period of change
for all of Jehovah's people.
We've had to show flexibility, caution, and reasonableness.
Here at Gilead, for us too, Class 150
has presented us with change.
For example, all the students of Class 150
are from or serving in the United States.
Five couples in one single brother
all serve in the circuit work.
That represents approximately 50% of the class.
Today, we're going to meet three couples
from different parts of the United States
and see how they learn to cope with change in their lives.
And how they, like the Apostle Paul,
worked to become all things to all people.
So let's meet our first guests,
Joey and Taylor Bornshine, from the state of Texas.
Joey and Taylor, welcome to the inside story.
Great to have you with us.
Thank you.
You're from the big state of Texas.
Where specifically are you from?
From Dallas.
Dallas, Texas, all right.
Well, again, nice to have you with us.
To come to Gilead, here you are in the 150th class,
and it all starts with regular pioneering.
So how did you both start regular pioneering,
maybe Joey, how did you start?
So for me, I feel very grateful that my foundation
starts a long time ago with my family,
especially with my grandparents.
They were the couple that, after they got married,
they really just wanted to serve Jehovah
the best way they could.
They would ask circuit overseers where they could move
that needed help.
If they were ever asked to go to another congregation,
they would always do it right away.
And so that really affected my mom,
which in turn affected me.
How did that affect you?
So for a while, after my parents got married,
they might have just gotten a little distracted
with marriage, family, taking care of the family.
But at one point, they made a move across the country.
And they used that as an opportunity to simplify.
And my mom was able to start regular pioneering at that time.
And I just, I remember as a child,
how different both of my parents were,
just in their happiness and in life in general,
because she was able to do more for Jehovah.
Nice.
How old were you when that happened
when your mom started pioneering
and you saw this change?
I was about nine.
OK.
And so when did you start regular pioneering then?
So actually the next year, my sister
and I both got to join her pioneering.
So you were 10 years old.
That is amazing.
10 years old, starting pioneering.
Great.
What about you, Taylor, how did you
get your start in regular pioneering?
So we pioneered in Texas, but I'm originally from Colorado.
So my parents, like Joey, said a really good example for me.
Most of my life, they pioneered as a couple.
And so pioneering was always just something, full-time service
was something that I grew up with.
Then I was in my mid teens.
My parents got appointed into the substitute circuit work.
That was fun.
On the weekends, I would travel with them
to visit congregations.
I was in public schools.
I couldn't go with them during the week.
And I appreciated about them.
That it wasn't just what they said,
but they set the example by what they did.
OK, I mean, that must have been cool.
You got to be parents and they're in the substitute circuit work.
But personally, how did that affect you?
Yeah, so that was just some good motivation
for me to start pioneering.
I graduated about six months early,
a semester early, and then started pioneering.
And then as soon as I was able to, I hit 19
and submitted an application for Bethel.
And soon thereafter, I was accepted
and was able to spend a few years in Brooklyn.
OK.
After that, I know you left Bethel a tube you got married
or you're there, regular pioneering in Dallas.
What made the difference for you,
for you to reach out and progress in Jehovah's Service?
So we were pioneering as a young couple.
We had goals, but it can be hard when you're new,
trying to figure marriage out some distractions
or maybe even just knowing what direction you should take.
So we just feel so thankful to Jehovah,
whether we had some very instrumental circuit overseer
couples that came just at the right time.
We've tried to express it to them,
but I don't think they'll ever fully understand
the impact that they've had on our lives.
Well, that is one of the great things
about the impact of those in the circuit work,
what they do for young people, for young ones.
And I think we're also grateful for that.
Would you say then that was that your inspiration
to get into the circuit work?
Not really.
We actually had different goals.
We really wanted to go to Bethel together as a couple.
So we applied and applied, and it just didn't seem to happen.
But you ended up in the circuit work.
So I wonder what changed then?
Did it just grow on you or what happened?
Well, one day we opened up a piece of mail
and it was a questionnaire for the substitute circuit work.
So while that might not have been the direction
that we thought we would go down,
it seemed like that was the path
that Jehovah laid out in front of us.
So we happily accepted.
And little by little, it started to grow on us,
the idea of the circuit work.
We were then able to attend school
for kingdom evangelizers,
where it just continued to get training,
motivation to do what Jehovah wants us to do.
And so after our graduation,
within just a few months,
we were appointed into the circuit work
and we love the circuit work.
Where was your first circuit, Joy?
So we went to the suburbs of Chicago.
So it was great.
Big city of Dallas, to the big city of Chicago.
What did you think of Chicago?
It was everything that I could want in a circuit.
So two big city people from Dallas,
now to Chicago, even bigger city.
We love diversity,
love background, culture, race,
and it had everything.
So we were just eating it up.
We loved being in the Chicago area.
It sounds like a butt's coming for change.
What changed for you both?
So after just about six months of being in that circuit,
still falling in love with the circuit work,
we got to call from the branch office
that we were now being reassigned
to a different circuit,
further north,
and a more rural circuit in Wisconsin.
Okay, Wisconsin.
Well, what did you think?
Tell us about it.
What was Wisconsin like for you Taylor?
So very different,
big city people going into a rural circuit
that was mostly dairy farm communities.
So out of my element,
we would drive for miles and miles
when we were out in service,
no stores or shops or bathrooms or coffee shops.
So it was a little getting used to.
Timing was probably now became something you had to learn.
Right, good.
What about for you Joey coming from Dallas?
What was it like for you?
For me, the big change was the weather, the winters.
We didn't have extreme winters in Dallas
and Wisconsin had very long, very cold winters.
So we invested in really good coats, wool leggings,
great boots.
I jokingly told Taylor some mornings I would wake up
and feel exhausted just getting dressed in the morning.
Putting on so much, I guess that also affected
bathroom breaks and things like that.
New skills you're learning in Wisconsin.
Right.
What helped you to adjust to this new change?
So although it was a different environment,
it was just beautiful to see that it was cold outside,
but that didn't affect the friends, their hearts,
they were warm and their service to Jehovah,
they were so warm in the way that they treated us.
It just adopted us so quickly into a different environment.
Are we very, very quickly fell in love
with the friends in Wisconsin?
Jehovah's people are amazing, aren't they?
What about you, Joey?
What would you say helped you to adjust?
Well, of course, like Taylor said,
the love from the friends it helped us immediately.
But we also actually learned new waves to have fun
that we never did in Dallas.
Yeah, you brought a picture, this photograph,
great picture, obviously having fun there.
Joey, what can you tell us about it?
So this is actually a gathering that we went to
on the middle of a frozen lake.
And this is actually a size fishing.
Did you catch anything?
We did.
You're telling yourself you're not in Dallas.
You're not in the North.
Great.
There's also another photo, and I love this one.
What can you tell us about this Taylor?
So there's a brother in the circuit
who raised beef cattle.
So I got to spend some time getting to pet the little guy
and also a hand feeding it.
So amazing experience, not something
that I would have been able to do in downtown Chicago
or downtown Dallas.
If you're really there just becoming all things
to all people, what would you say you learned
from the changes you've gone through in your lives?
So if I'm just being honest, the circuit work
was not something that I had a desire to do.
I didn't feel like it would make me comfortable or happy.
But Jehovah, at times, puts things in front of us
that we might not think that we would like or make us
comfortable, but it does.
And I'm so glad that he did allow us
to have the opportunity to be into the circuit work
because we love the circuit work.
So just a nice little reminder that Jehovah
will choose things for us or put things in front of us
that maybe we don't think is going to make us happy
or it's not going to make us comfortable
and how we feel with a circumstance or environment.
But that Jehovah always chooses what's best for us
if we just let him do it.
What would you say, Joey?
What did you learn?
I think for me, anytime there's a change,
there's always going to be a little bit of anxiety
and certain tease worries.
I just really learned to just leave it in Jehovah's hands
to pray to him about it because a lot of times
those things never even happen.
They never even come true.
So whatever Jehovah asks of us, we will be able
to get through it because either they won't happen
or Jehovah will help us and bless us through them.
Those are two great lessons that you learned.
Thank you so much for sharing them with us.
And those are two lessons that will probably help you out
in the changes that are to come in your life.
Taylor and Joey, thank you so much
for being with us on the Inside Story.
Thank you. Thank you.
Let's welcome our next guests coming from the state
of Michigan, Ben and Whitney Fry.
Ben and Whitney, thank you for being with us
on the Inside Story.
You've come to Gilead from the circuit work
and the circuit work also starts with regular pioneering.
So maybe you can tell us how did you, Whitney,
how did you start regular pioneering?
So my mom taught me the truth when I was growing up
and I loved Jehovah, but by late teens,
I didn't really know what I wanted to do with my life.
I had a girlfriend who invited me to support her
at a funeral of a young brother
who had passed away in a tragic accident.
That's interesting.
Maybe you could make, what's the connection
starting pioneering of a funeral?
Maybe you could make the connection for us.
Yeah, so for me, when I got to the funeral
of this young brother, even though I didn't know him personally,
I had seen that he had just started regular pioneering
and he had the goal of going to Bethel when he got old enough.
And I just compared his life to mine.
He was going to give everything he had to Jehovah.
And I had the circumstances to do the same thing,
but I wasn't doing it.
And so I just thought he didn't get to finish his story.
So I wanted to pick up where he left off.
I wanted to start pioneering.
And so when I went home, I prayed about it
and I turned in my auxiliary pioneer application
with the goal of starting regular in September.
Well, that's really encouraging something so tragic
and yet someone great positive came out of it.
What about you, Ben?
How did you get your start?
So similar to Whitney, my mother taught me the truth.
My dad was not in the truth during my youth.
I grew up in a rural congregation in Michigan.
And while I respected the truth in my late teens, early 20s,
I struggled spiritually.
And the reason being is because I wanted a lot out of life.
And at that point, the truth felt very restrictive to me.
It felt like it was holding me back
and not allowing me to get the rich life that I wanted.
What changed in your life then?
What helped you?
We had a couple pioneer elders
move into our congregation who were a great source
of encouragement to me.
They helped me to see that serving Jehovah,
it's not about what you can't do.
It's about all the things you can do.
And the way I illustrated is with a board game,
if all you did was just learn the rules of that game,
but you never played it, that wouldn't be a lot of fun.
And that's really how my view was at that time
of the truth.
I knew the rules, so to speak, of the truth.
I respected the truth, but I wasn't involved in it.
So with the encouragement of these two brothers,
I really got involved.
I started playing the game, so to speak.
And I started studying the Bible,
like I should have all along.
And then I also started regular pioneering shortly thereafter.
Nice, well, we're happy you got in the game.
Was there anything else Whitney that helped you
or maybe inspired you to reach out?
Yeah, when I started wanting to pioneer,
I also got into more studying.
And one thing that really affected me
was the video to the ends of the earth.
I remember watching it, and as I'm watching it thinking,
that's it.
That's what I want to do.
I want to go to Gilead and I want to be a missionary.
Very nice.
Well, that video is still available on jw.org
on the video library.
And probably that video, like yourselves,
inspired hundreds of people to reach out
and enter missionary service to attend Gilead.
And many of them are still out there
strengthening and stabilizing the brotherhood.
So you both then had the goal of foreign service, missionary service.
Did you keep pursuing that goal?
Yeah, we certainly did.
After we got married six months later,
we served where the need was great
in the country of Guyana and South America.
Nice.
And you brought along a couple of pictures.
Maybe you can explain these.
Well, the first one's obviously that's your photo, Ben.
What can you tell us?
Yeah, so we were motivated by the motorbike scene
in the ends of the Earth video.
So we got a motorbike when we were down there,
not quite as big or as cool as the one
in the ends of the Earth video.
But this served its purpose.
We were able to travel the territory efficiently
through our different Bible studies and return visits.
Good.
And the next photo, what can you tell us about it, Whitney?
So when the bike couldn't take us any farther,
we would park it.
And then we walked and a lot of times
that meant through mud across the trenches.
But we didn't mind.
It was fun.
We were enjoying it.
So Ben's being careful on the bridge.
Yeah, you had to be careful because there
were black Cayman, which is a form of alligator
that were in those trenches.
So you chose your steps carefully.
Well, I know Sue, you came back from Guyana.
Did you continue to pursue Gilead?
We did.
Once we returned to the United States
after serving in Guyana, we applied for Gilead.
And to our surprise, we were invited
to serve as special pioneers in the state
of West Virginia here in the United States.
OK, so did Gilead remain your goal, though,
even though you're there in West Virginia?
It did.
We continued to apply for Gilead.
But then instead, we were invited
to the Bible school for Christian couples.
Very nice.
So more theocratic education, though.
And from there, you returned to West Virginia?
That's correct.
So we continued special pioneering in West Virginia.
And we also got training for circuit work.
Good.
Did you end up in the circuit work?
So we were invited to start circuit work
in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin area,
similar close by to the Borenstein.
And we loved it.
We loved the friends there, and we love that circuit.
Nice.
But of course, change came, didn't it?
A big change for you?
Yeah, so one day, Ben came home.
We've been there about four years.
We're loving it.
And he came home and told me that we
got field missionary applications.
There it is, foreign service.
So how did you feel? Ben, how did you feel?
At that point in our life, we were really
enjoying circuit work.
And we loved the friends.
So admittedly, at that point, the idea of now going foreign
and having another change, maybe lost a bit of its luster.
And we had gotten so comfortable.
We had potentially gotten too comfortable.
What about you, Whitney?
Yeah, I thought, you know, that had always been my goal.
But now, Jehovah, now, after I got into circuit work,
was enjoying it, now you want me to go foreign.
So what helped you?
So we were explaining what was happening
and talking to my family, telling them how we feel.
I was talking to my sister and my brother-in-law.
And he said, you know what, you feel
like you got trained for circuit work.
But maybe circuit work was training you
for the next assignment.
And just shifting my thoughts in that way really helped me.
Yeah, that's great advice.
What about you, Ben?
Was there something particularly that helped you?
There it was.
I spoke with a brother in the service department at Bethel.
And he said that ones in our situation
come across his desk frequently.
And he said, you're at a crossroads.
And there are some who turned down the opportunity
to accept this form of foreign service.
He said, but for those that accept it,
who take that step of faith, they receive blessings
that they could never have imagined from Jehovah.
And we can rightly say that has been completely accurate.
We feel exactly that way.
Well, it shows.
So you went off into a foreign assignment.
You continued in circuit work there.
What would you say Whitney, how did foreign service help you?
So many ways, but a couple of them
are just getting to express our faith and trust in Jehovah
in a way that we never would have if we didn't go.
And one of the greatest gifts was the people that we met,
the local brothers and sisters, our fellow missionaries
and circuit overseers.
Their faith in self-sacrifice taught us so much.
Beautiful.
And now you've come to Gilead.
How has Gilead training helped you?
Again, so many ways, but while we loved our foreign assignment,
it did have challenges.
And I remember praying to Jehovah, asking him
for help with certain things that I struggled with.
And the first week that we were here in Gilead,
I saw the answer to those prayers, specific things
that I had prayed about answered right in week one.
And it never stopped since.
Yeah, and I'm sure Gilead training will just
keep helping you in the future.
You said at the outset, Ben, that you
wanted to get a lot out of life.
And I think we would all agree.
You've gotten a lot out of life, both of you so far.
And maybe the next 30 minutes, you'll find just out
just how much more of life you're going to get.
Thank you both for being with us on The Insight Story.
Thank you.
Let's welcome our final guests.
They're also serving in the United States.
It's Joshua and Saladi Rechenek.
Joshua and Saladi, welcome.
It's nice to have you.
You're our final guests on The Insight Story for today.
And I should clarify, although you're
serving the United States, you are actually
from Puerto Rico, correct?
That's right, which is a beautiful tropical island
in the Caribbean.
So my mom and dad moved there before I was born and to serve.
And that's where I was raised.
And they were a tremendous example
for entering full-time service for me.
Because when I was one, they actually
started in the circuit work.
So just from a very young age, it just
seemed very natural to have that as a goal.
And I'm very grateful.
OK.
Saladi, you also born and raised in Puerto Rico?
That is right.
I have an older brother, Tafi.
And we both were raised by our mom, Lydia,
as a single parent.
She raised us in the truth.
And a little bit after Joshua came to our congregation,
I started to pioneer.
And also I had the privilege to serve as commuter
in Puerto Rico, right?
But we were happy to have him in our congregation,
but something happened.
OK.
Before we get to what happened, we have a nice photograph.
There it is.
So that's you with your mom, Saladi?
Yeah, my mom, Lydia.
So Josh, just to clarify this also,
how did you get to Saladi's congregation?
So after I started pioneering, I
went to what was called the Ministerial Training School
in 2003.
And after a little bit, I got assigned
to this lovely rural congregation,
where I just happened to meet a very beautiful sister.
I like the way you say lovely congregation.
Yes.
But a change came.
You said, Saladi, something changed.
What changed?
Well, I had gotten some training as a substitute circuit
over here.
And then there was a need for a circuit over here.
But it wasn't in Puerto Rico.
It was in a Spanish circuit in Ohio.
And so I prayed about it.
And off I went from Puerto Rico to Ohio.
What was that like, Josh?
Tell us about it.
How did you feel when you got there?
I was very different.
I remember dropping my dad off at the airport
because he helped me move up.
And then when I was driving away, I said, I know nobody
and nothing even nearby after that plane takes off.
Because not only the place was different,
but everything was different.
It's very interesting because the congregations
in the US and Spanish tend to be very mixed culturally.
And so I got to be with brothers
from many different cultures that I had
and experienced before.
I even had to learn to speak Spanish in a way
that everybody would understand is that it's just
the brothers from Puerto Rico.
Right.
So that's a huge change for you.
Change of culture coming to the United States.
And then as you say, all these other cultures,
you brought along a really nice picture, Josh.
What can you tell us about this?
I learned this day, a very important skill,
which is to check the weather report
before you leave home to preach.
Right.
Do you not check the weather in Puerto Rico?
Nope.
It's either going to be sunny or it's going to rain.
Two choices.
Interesting.
What about you, Solidey?
So Josh has come to the United States.
How did that affect you?
Well, I was happy for the assignment.
It was a privilege.
So I wanted to support him.
So we kept in touch.
And in 2010, we got married.
And after that, we received an invitation
to continue as a couple in Ohio.
Well, that's a big change for you then.
Again, just like Josh, you come new country in a sense,
new marriage, new assignment in the circuit work.
What were some of the hard moments for you?
Maybe Josh, you could share first.
Well, as I said, there was a lot of adaptation.
When you started a new assignment,
I don't think we ever felt really qualified for it,
or prepared for it.
And so we were very young when we started the circuit work,
visiting congregations where sometimes there were brothers
that had been serving as regular pioneers longer
than we'd been alive.
And then all of a sudden,
we've had the responsibility to encourage them and help them.
So that could be a bit intimidating.
Sure.
And you brought along another photo
that you can see the confusion of the adaptation.
What can you tell us about this, Josh?
So this was Field Service Day.
We shortly after getting married.
It wasn't that I was distracted or anything,
but we rushed out the door, went to Field Service,
took the group out, made all the arrangements.
And then a dear brother, very good friendy,
came up to me and he put his arm around my shoulder.
And he took me over to Solidey.
And he says, I'm not going to say anything.
I'm just going to look.
And he looked down at my shoes.
And well, it just turned out that I put two different shoes on.
And he was kind enough to point that out
before I went out and served us.
But he didn't point it out before he took the picture.
Of course.
Solidey, what were you thinking?
I was like, baby, but what happened?
What are you doing?
So you always check his shoes before he goes out now.
I learned to check him before leaving home.
But maybe in all seriousness, Josh, what would you say?
What were the keys to helping you?
I got some really good advice from brothers
with more experience, including my father.
And there's really two keys we found.
One is to love the brothers.
Because that's really what they need.
They need love and affection in your time.
And the other is to be humble.
Because the brothers appreciate greatly
the arrangement of the circuit over here.
Whoever the circuit over here is.
So as long as you remain humble, Jehovah
can use you to encourage the friends.
And then all glory goes to you.
Very nice to love humility.
And that's really what helps us become all things to all people.
What about for you, Solidey?
What were challenges for you?
Well, for me, it was the emotional part.
Because it is true.
It is a beautiful privilege
to be able to know so many brothers and sisters
and make bonds with them.
But at the same time, you face reality.
You see all the struggle that they are going through.
So some are dealing with health problems
or economic problems or even their status in the country.
So I was not able to help them in the way that I wanted.
So I felt helpless.
So what could you do for them?
So I had to left that part in the Jehovah hands
and give them my time.
So I tried to go with them on service,
try to encourage them.
Sometimes we laugh, sometimes we cry.
But I tried to show them our love
and even more important that Jehovah loved them.
Nice.
Well, I'm sure you left a little bit of your heart
with all of them.
That's very nice.
Now you're here in Gilead.
Was that a surprise for you?
Yes, a big surprise.
And Josh, I know Gilead actually
has a special place in your heart.
Why is that?
It does.
It's because my parents attended Gilead.
And that's actually what brought them to Puerto Rico.
They attended the 52nd class.
Right, good.
So having parents who went to Gilead,
did they keep Gilead in their heart
even after they had a family and were raising Union?
They did, absolutely.
I remember they had their graduation photo up in the hallway
where all of us would walk by every day.
So every day of my life growing up,
I walk past that photo.
There it is, 52nd class.
That's them.
And also the way they were,
the way they served Jehovah,
the love and zeal that they have,
it's clear to me, even clearer now,
that Gilead had a big impact on them.
What would you say that impact was on them?
How did you see Gilead training in them?
I think two things.
One is that there are excellent students of the Bible
always have been.
My mom's Bible has so many notes.
I don't think he can hold anymore.
And my dad, I remember he would be reading the Bible
with us at night and he had an envelope
that he'd marked the family Bible with.
And all of a sudden he'd stop reading
and stop to make a note on the envelope
because he came across a scripture
that he wanted to use for a talk or a shepherding chord,
just a point that he liked.
So that was an excellent example.
And also they've always worked very, very hard
for Kingdom interests.
They've always had the goal to do as much as they can
for as long as they can
and just kind of became the family model.
So it's interesting now going through Gilead
and seeing so much emphasis placed on those,
exactly those things to feed your love for Jehovah
and do as much as you can for the organization.
Yeah, I was going to ask you that as well.
Here you are sitting in class
and you're hearing to a great degree,
the same things your parents heard.
Has that helped to at all?
It has.
They must have had those qualities to an extent
when they came to Gilead.
But I think listening to the classes now
it's clear that Gilead stirred that up in them
and kept that flame burning for many, many years.
That's beautiful.
And they must be very proud of both of you
as you apply yourselves and will apply the training
and look forward to applying in your future assignments.
Thank you both very much for being with us today.
Thank you.
In the introduction, we quoted Paul's words
in 1 Corinthians 9 verse 22.
He said, I've become all things to people of all sorts
so that I might by all possible means save some.
The apostle obligated himself to adjust his life
and personal tastes for the sake of the good news.
We hope today's program has been encouraging to you.
Whether it's trying something you just don't prefer
or something you didn't think you could do in Jehovah's service,
maybe it's just getting in the game, so to speak,
or giving someone a little piece of your heart
to encourage them.
Today's guests have shown us that by adjusting your life
and personal tastes for the sake of the good news
with Jehovah, we can cope with any change
or make any change for Jehovah's service.
Thank you for being with us
and we look forward to seeing you on another edition
of the Inside Story.